Drift guide 1066 (#1447)
deepchecks/deepchecks: docs/source/user-guide/general/drift_guide.rst

.. _drift_user_guide:

====================
Drift User Guide
====================

(Is this needed if there's a menu on the right?)

**Structure:**

* `What Is Distribution Drift? <#what-is-distribution-drift>`__
* `Which Types of Drift Are There? <#which-types-of-drift-are-there>`__
* `What Are the Causes of Drift? <#what-are-the-causes-of-drift>`__
* `How Do You Detect Drift? <#how-do-you-detect-drift>`__
* `How Can I Use Deepchecks to Detect Drift? <#how-can-i-use-deepchecks-to-detect-drift>`__
* `Code Examples <#code-examples>`__

What Is Distribution Drift?
==========================

Distribution drift is a change in the underlying distribution of the data or the target label. Drift happens over time,
and can occur either gradually or suddenly.

> Common reasons of drift can be natural changes in the data, such as shopping habits changing for an online retailer

Author: Umm. I think "of" is more correcter

> Common reasons of drift can be natural changes in the data, such as shopping habits changing for an online retailer

Author: You were right, I was wrong

(for example, during the covid pandemic, virtual shopping has risen significantly and buyer patterns have changed), or
data streaming and quality issues, such as a camera settings changed accidentally to have lower exposure.

So Why Is Drift So Important?
-----------------------------

> In machine learning, our models are built to predict only on data they have seen before.

Author: Fixed

adjusted or retrained on different data.
In production environments, detecting drift is often the only way to know that our model is inaccurate,
as in many domains the label is unknown for some time after the prediction.

Important to note that not all changes in data are drift. For example, periodic changes in data due to daily, weekly or
seasonal changes are usually not considered drift, as they can be predicted in advance and the model can learn from
past data samples.

Which Types of Drift Are There?
================================

In machine learning, we usually refer to 3 types of drift:

Concept Drift
-------------
Concept drift happens when the underline relation between the data and the label has changed. In layman terms, this means that our
data has changed in a way that affects our label, meaning a model trained on previous data will have difficulty predicting
on the new data, as the label can't be predicted in the same way anymore.

Concept drift will almost always require some changes to the model, and will require retraining it on newer data.

Data Drift
----------

> Data drift is any change in the distribution of the data. It usually refers to changes that do not significantly affect the label.

Reviewer: I would add: affect the label given a sample

> Data drift is any change in the distribution of the data. It usually refers to changes that do not significantly affect the label.

Author: @Nadav-Barak - not sure what you meant by "given a sample" and what it adds.

> Data drift is any change in the distribution of the data. It usually refers to changes that do not significantly affect the label.

Author: With the given example, is that clearer or does this sentence still needs to be improved?  (wait till push)

> Data drift is any change in the distribution of the data. It usually refers to changes that do not significantly affect the label.

Author: Nadav did like it. @shir22 ?

For example, if a dataset has 90% of label A and 10% of label B, the model may learn that label A is more common and
is a better prediction in cases where the label can't be inferred easily. Changes to this distribution can prompt us
to retrain the model on the new distribution, in order to more accurately simulate the current reality.
Note that this is not relevant when the training dataset is sampled so labels are evenly distributed.

2. You may need to take some action - Not all changes in data means we need to retrain our model.
However, we may need to act differently on it.
For example, a fraud prevention company predicts fraudulent payments in 80% accuracy. Suddenly, the company notices that
that they are getting more fraudulent payments recently. They are still predicted in 80% accuracy, but those 20% they
get wrong are now more costly, and therefore the company needs to adjust its actions - perhaps adjusting the model
decision threshold, or adding a manual review process.

For more on the different types of drift, `see here <https://deepchecks.com/data-drift-vs-concept-drift-what-are-the-main-differences/>`_

What Are the Causes of Drift?
==============================

> (Is this interesting on its own? Or should this be a part of the description of each drift?)

Reviewer 2: Think that giving an example of change in the real world and change in data acquisition and processing in the first part is enough.

How Do You Detect Drift?
=========================

In general, drift detection is done by comparing the newer and older data, and seeing whether they are derived from
the same underlying distribution. This is actually not a "yes or no" question - Instead, we ask "what is the probability
that these 2 distributions are the same?".

There are many methods to detect drift. Here, we will elaborate on 2:

Detection by Statistical Test
-----------------------------
This is the simplest and most common drift detection method.
This is done by sampling a single variable (that can either be a data feature, the label or even the prediction) and

> running a statistical test that aims to measure the difference the 2 samples.

Reviewer 2: our current methods are not statistical tests.

There are many tests that can do this, such as the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, Jensen-Shannon Divergence and more.
In deepchecks, we found that the best results are given by:

* For continuous numeric distributions - `Wasserstein metric (Earth Movers Distance) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wasserstein_metric>`__
* For discrete or categorical distributions - `Population Stability Index (PSI) <https://www.lexjansen.com/wuss/2017/47_Final_Paper_PDF.pdf>`__ or `Cramer's V <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cram%C3%A9r%27s_V>`__

These methods have the advantage of being simple to use and produce explainable results. However, they are limited by

> checking each feature one at a time, and cannot detect drift that occurs over multiple variables (or they detect it

Reviewer 2: or drift in the relations between features

multiple times)

Detection by Domain Classifier
------------------------------

This is a method to detect multivariate drift, meaning that it can run on several variables, and even on the whole dataset.
This is done by training a model to classify if a sample came from the train dataset or the new (test or production) dataset.
If the classifier can easily predict which sample is from which dataset, it would mean that there are significant differences between these datasets.

The main advantage of this method is that it can also uncover covariate drift, meaning drift in the data that does not

> affect the distribution of each individual variable, but does affect the relationship between them. For example, ?

Reviewer 2: For example, you're predicting the income of a person from his city and education. Let's say a tech giant now moved into city A. This means that:
1. Given that a person lives in city A, he's more likely to have a more advanced degree (educated people moved to city A) - this is multivariate drift.
2. Given his education, a resident of city A now earns more. - this is concept drift.

How Can I Use Deepchecks to Detect Drift?
=========================================

> Deepchecks can test your data for both concept drift and label drift, by using a variety of methods.

Reviewer 2: Maybe find a way here to link to the demo, to let people play with the different checks and see their point.

For code examples, see `here <#tabular-checks>`__

Computer Vision Data
--------------------

To detect `data <#data-drift>`__ or `concept drift <#concept-drift>`__, deepchecks offers the
:doc:`Image Property Drift check </checks_gallery/vision/distribution/plot_image_property_drift>` which uses univariate
`statistical test <#detection-by-statistical-test>`__ and the :doc:`Image Dataset Drift check</checks_gallery/vision/distribution/plot_image_dataset_drift>`
which uses a `domain classifier <#detection-by-domain-classifier>`__ in order to detect multivariate drift.

For label drift, deepchecks offers the :doc:`Label Drift check </checks_gallery/vision/distribution/plot_train_test_label_drift>`, which also uses univariate `statistical test <#detection-by-statistical-test>`__.

In cases where the label is not available, we strongly recommend to also use the :doc:`Prediction Drift check</checks_gallery/vision/distribution/plot_train_test_prediction_drift>`,
which uses the same methods but on the model's predictions, and can detect possible changes in the distribution of the label.

> All of the computer vision checks use the :doc:`image and label properties</user-guide/vision-properties>` to estimate

Reviewer 2: Maybe start with that?

.. _drift_user_guide:

====================
Drift User Guide
====================

**In This Guide, You Can Learn:**

* `What Is Distribution Drift and How Can You Detect It? <#what-is-distribution-drift>`__
* `How Can You Use Deepchecks to Detect Drift? <#how-can-i-use-deepchecks-to-detect-drift>`__

What Is Distribution Drift?
==========================

Distribution drift is a change in the underlying distribution of the data, the label or of the relationship between them. Drift happens over time,
and can occur either gradually or suddenly.

Common reasons for drift can be natural changes in the data, such as shopping habits changing for an online retailer
(for example, during the covid pandemic, virtual shopping has risen significantly and buyer patterns have changed), or
data acquisition and processing issues, such as a camera settings changing accidentally to have lower exposure.

So Why Is Drift So Important?
-----------------------------

Machine learning models are meant to predict on unseen data, based on previous known data (more accurately, this refers

> to supervised machine learning models, for which drift is relevant).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to supervised machine learning models, for which drift is most relevant).
```
"Unsupervised" stuff like anomaly detection still relies on people somehow calibrating thresholds or inspecting clusters, and the success of these things on heavily drifted data can IMO still be harmed.

If the data, or the relationships between the different variables and target label, has changed, our model may not be as
accurate as it was before.

Detecting drift is an important warning sign that our model may be not as accurate on the new data compared to the training data, and that it should be
adjusted or retrained on different data.
In production environments, detecting drift (and other measured derived from drift, such as model confidence) is often the only way to know that our model performance is deteriorating,
as in many cases the label is unknown for some time after the prediction is made.

It is important to note that not all changes in data represent drift. For example, periodic changes in data due to daily, weekly or
seasonal changes are usually not considered drift, as they as they are often present in the training data.

Which Types of Drift Are There?
================================

In machine learning, we usually refer to 3 types of drift:

Concept Drift
-------------
Concept drift happens when the underline relation between the data and the label has changed. In layman terms, this means that our

> data has changed in a way that affects our label, meaning a model trained on previous data will have difficulty predicting

Reviewer 2: Think that the layman sentence doesn't add.

Author: I disagree. I think that not all people interested in drift will understand the meaning behind the first sentence, especially when we cater to data analysts and not only data scientists.

Reviewer: I think the truth is somewhere between, an additional explanation sentence is necessary but this out is not clear.

Author: Rewrote, please review

-----------
Label drift is the change in the distribution of the label itself. Note that this can also be caused by concept drift,
but here we discuss a change that means that the label can still be accurately predicted from the data, but its
distribution has changed.

In many cases, label drift alone might not be of interest. However, it may affect your model's accuracy, as less-accurate
classes may be more prevalent now that they were in your train dataset.

For more on the different types of drift, `see here <https://deepchecks.com/data-drift-vs-concept-drift-what-are-the-main-differences/>`_

What Can You Do in Case of Drift?
---------------------------------

There are several solutions to distribution drift. They are also dependent on the information you have.

* If your drifted data has labels, you can easily know which type of drift you are facing.
* However, the more common case is when you don't have your data labels yet. In this case, we can only try and measure
  drift on the data (features) or the model's output.
  If we detect drift, we have no way to know whether this drift is a simple data drift, label drift or concept drift, as
  we don't know the true labels.

> (Feels disconnected to the rest here)

Reviewer 2: Maybe drop a note about how looking at the drift of the highest FI features may help understand if we should worry or not?

Retrain Your Model
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> If you have either kind of drift, retraining your model on new data, that better represents the current distribution

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have either kind of drift, retraining your model on new data that better represents the current distribution
```

> of data, is the most straight-forward solution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
, is the most straight-forward solution.
```

However, this solution may require additional resources such as manual labeling of new data, or might not be possible
if labels on the newer data are not available yet.

Retraining is usually necessary in cases of concept drift. However, retraining may still be of use even for label drift,
as the model may perform better when knowing the correct distribution of the label (this is not relevant when the
training dataset is sampled so labels are evenly distributed)

Adjust Your Prediction
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When retraining is not an option, or if a quick action needs to be taken, adjustments to the output of the models may
still help in cases of concept drift. This can be done by either recalibrating your model's output, or by changing your
decision thresholds on the model's scores.

However, these methods assume that there's still enough similarity between your training data and your current data,
which may not always be the case.

> Do Nothing

Reviewer 2: lol, but it's right

^^^^^^^^^^

Not all drift is necessarily bad, and each case should be examined separately. Sometimes, data drift may be simply
explained by label drift (for example, in a dataset of food images, a drift in brightness of images can simply mean
that people are eating more eggs, which are whiter than other foods).

How Do You Detect Drift?
=========================

In general, drift detection is done by comparing the newer and older data, and seeing whether they are derived from

> the same underlying distribution. This is actually not a "yes or no" question - Instead, we ask "what is the probability

Reviewer 2: Mmm we actually ask more like "how much are these distributions different?"

This is the simplest and most common drift detection method.
This is done by taking only one variable at a time (that can either be a data feature, the label or even the prediction)
and measuring the difference between newer and older samples of the variable.
There are many measures that can be used for this, such as the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, Jensen-Shannon Divergence and more.
In deepchecks, we found that the best results are given by:

* For continuous numeric distributions - `Wasserstein metric (Earth Movers Distance) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wasserstein_metric>`__
* For discrete or categorical distributions - `Population Stability Index (PSI) <https://www.lexjansen.com/wuss/2017/47_Final_Paper_PDF.pdf>`__ or `Cramer's V <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cram%C3%A9r%27s_V>`__

These methods have the advantage of being simple to use and produce explainable results. However, they are limited by
checking each feature one at a time, and cannot detect drift in the relations between features. Also, these methods
will usually detect drift multiple times if it occures in several features.

Detection by Domain Classifier
------------------------------

> This is a method to detect multivariate drift, meaning that it can run on several variables, and even on the whole dataset.

Reviewer 2: Link to https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.03045

This is done by training a model to classify if a sample came from the train dataset or the new (test or production) dataset.
If the classifier can easily predict which sample is from which dataset, it would mean that there are significant differences between these datasets.

The main advantage of this method is that it can also uncover covariate drift, meaning drift in the data that does not
affect the distribution of each individual variable, but does affect the relationship between them.

For example, you're predicting the income of a person from his city and education. Let's say a tech giant now moved into city A. This means that:

> 1. Given that a person lives in city A, he's more likely to have a more advanced degree (educated people moved to city A) - this is multivariate drift.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Given that a person lives in city A, he's more likely to have a more advanced degree (educated people moved to city A) - this is multivariate drift and can be detected by the Domain Classifier. 
```

> 2. Given his education, a resident of city A now earns more. - this is concept drift.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Given his education, a resident of city A now earns more. - this is concept drift, and can be detected only once the labels (income) have arrived. 
```

.. _drift_user_guide:

====================
Drift User Guide
====================

**In This Guide, You Can Learn:**

* `What Is Distribution Drift and How Can You Detect It? <#what-is-distribution-drift>`__
* `How Can You Use Deepchecks to Detect Drift? <#how-can-i-use-deepchecks-to-detect-drift>`__

What Is Distribution Drift?
==========================

Distribution drift is a change in the underlying distribution of the data, the label or of the relationship between them. Drift happens over time,
and can occur either gradually or suddenly.

Common reasons for drift can be natural changes in the data, such as shopping habits changing for an online retailer
(for example, during the covid pandemic, virtual shopping has risen significantly and buyer patterns have changed), or
data acquisition and processing issues, such as a camera settings changing accidentally to have lower exposure.

So Why Is Drift So Important?
-----------------------------

Machine learning models are meant to predict on unseen data, based on previous known data (more accurately, this refers

> to supervised machine learning models, for which drift is most relevant).

Author: Because we mainly talk about labels and the relationship to them, I thought this is worth mentioning. This is why it says "most relevant". Do you suggest we remove the parenthesis altogether? Or maybe soften it more?

> to supervised machine learning models, for which drift is most relevant).

Reviewer 3: I suggest removing it, don't feel that it adds important details.
Ddon't really relate to your first part (the drift shouldn't be discussed mainly in relationship to the labels, also didn't really get a strong feeling that that is the case - for example - data drift, prediction drift...).

If the data, or the relationships between the different variables and target label, has changed, our model may not be as
accurate as it was before.

Detecting drift is an important warning sign that our model may be not as accurate on the new data compared to the training data, and that it should be
adjusted or retrained on different data.

> In production environments, detecting drift (and other measured derived from drift, such as model confidence) is often the only way to know that our model performance is deteriorating,

Reviewer: measures

as in many cases the label is unknown for some time after the prediction is made.

It is important to note that not all changes in data represent drift. For example, periodic changes in data due to daily, weekly or
seasonal changes are usually not considered drift, as they as they are often present in the training data.

.. image:: /_static/images/general/patterns-of-concept-drift.png
   :alt: Different change patterns in data
   :align: center

Different change patterns in data. `Source <https://www.iosrjournals.org/iosr-jce/papers/Vol17-issue1/Version-2/D017122026.pdf>`_.

Which Types of Drift Are There?
================================

In machine learning, we usually refer to 3 types of drift:

Concept Drift
-------------

> Concept drift happens when the underline relation between the data and the label has changed. In layman terms, this means that our

Author: Changed manually

data has changed in a way that affects our label, meaning a model trained on previous data will have difficulty predicting
on the new data, as the label can't be predicted in the same way anymore.

> Concept drift will almost always require some changes to the model, and will require retraining it on newer data.

Reviewer: Usually this is achieved by retraining of the model on more recent data.

Author: Not sure what you meant to comment here. That "recent" is better than "newer"? Or that it's not necessarily on newer data?

Reviewer: Should have been more clear on this one. Meant to offer this sentence as a replacement for "and will require retraining it on newer data."

Author: "recent" is good but I prefer "newer" because it is in direct contrast to "older". Accepting the general vibe change and will update :)

Data Drift
----------
Data drift is any change in the distribution of the data. It usually refers to changes that do not significantly affect the label.

> However, even when not affecting the model, data drift is important, as it can expose other undetected issues.

Reviewer: Maybe add in what scenarios does it affect, when does it not.
Maybe say something about areas in the distribution that were under represented in the train and are now more common

> Moreover, when labels are not available (as happens in many cases), data drift cannot be discerned from concept drift.

Author: We thought it's important as people will ask "ok, so practically, what do I have?" and we need to tell them they can't know.

Label Drift
-----------
Label drift is the change in the distribution of the label itself. Note that this can also be caused by concept drift,
but here we discuss a change that means that the label can still be accurately predicted from the data, but its
distribution has changed.

In many cases, label drift alone might not be of interest. However, it may affect your model's accuracy, as less-accurate
classes may be more prevalent now that they were in your train dataset.

For more on the different types of drift, `see here <https://deepchecks.com/data-drift-vs-concept-drift-what-are-the-main-differences/>`_

.. image:: /_static/images/general/types-of-drift.png
   :alt: Different types of drift
   :align: center

Different types of drift. Adapted from `this source <https://www.win.tue.nl/~mpechen/publications/pubs/Gama_ACMCS_AdaptationCD_accepted.pdf>`_.

What Can You Do in Case of Drift?
---------------------------------

When suspecting drift in your data, you must first understand which type of drift it is. However, this is not a trivial

> question:

Author: Fixed  (wait till push)

training dataset is sampled so labels are evenly distributed)

Adjust Your Prediction
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When retraining is not an option, or if a quick action needs to be taken, adjustments to the output of the models may
still help in cases of concept drift. This can be done by either recalibrating your model's output, or by changing your
decision thresholds on the model's scores.

However, these methods assume that there's still enough similarity between your training data and your current data,
which may not always be the case.

Do Nothing
^^^^^^^^^^

Not all drift is necessarily bad, and each case should be examined separately. Sometimes, data drift may be simply
explained by label drift (for example, in a dataset of food images, a drift in brightness of images can simply mean
that people are eating more eggs, which are whiter than other foods).

How Do You Detect Drift?
=========================

In general, drift detection is done by comparing the newer and older data, and seeing whether they are derived from
the same underlying distribution. This is actually not a "yes or no" question - Instead, we ask "how much are these

> distributions different?".

Author: We don't always compare to current - in research, we hardly ever do.

> distributions different?".

Reviewer 3: in current data I mean "the current dataset we're comparing to", agree in your comment that it may not be clear, I'm goo also with other phrasings that drive that idea through. Would want it to be clear that we're comparing distributions between two datasets that we care about understanding if there is a difference between them... but it's also not necessarily "newer" and "older". It can also be two datasets collected from different sources. Or that we split a dataset into two and used it for training two different models. Or any other scenario. (summing up - just felt that the "newer" and "older" is limiting)

> distributions different?".

Author: @shir22 I understand where you're coming from, but I disagree. By definition, we're discussing drift over time and not "measured differences between datasets", and because of that, "newer" and "older" are accurate and describe the discussed scenario.

There are many methods to detect drift. Here, we will elaborate on 2:

> Detection by Univariate Measure

Author: I think "by" is better. Also will require many changes in other places if not critical to you :)

> Detection by Univariate Measure

Reviewer 3: Ok, indeed not critical. The reason I suggested the change was that I felt it sounded wrong grammar-wise (not sure whether it is or not), so thought to change to "by a" but that also didn't sound good.

> Detection by Univariate Measure

Author: https://linguix.com/english/preposition/preposition-after-verb/view/detect-by-detect-in
'Tis correct

and measuring the difference between newer and older samples of the variable.
There are many measures that can be used for this, such as the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, Jensen-Shannon Divergence and more.
In deepchecks, we found that the best results are given by:

* For continuous numeric distributions - `Wasserstein metric (Earth Movers Distance) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wasserstein_metric>`__
* For discrete or categorical distributions - `Population Stability Index (PSI) <https://www.lexjansen.com/wuss/2017/47_Final_Paper_PDF.pdf>`__ or `Cramer's V <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cram%C3%A9r%27s_V>`__

These methods have the advantage of being simple to use and produce explainable results. However, they are limited by
checking each feature one at a time, and cannot detect drift in the relations between features. Also, these methods
will usually detect drift multiple times if it occurs in several features.

Detection by Domain Classifier
------------------------------

Training a `Domain Classifier <https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.03045>`__ is a method to detect multivariate drift, meaning that it
can run on several variables, and even on the whole dataset.

> This is done by training a model to classify if a sample came from the train dataset or the new (test or production) dataset.

Author: Again, disagree with replacing "newer" with "current"

> This is done by training a model to classify if a sample came from the train dataset or the new (test or production) dataset.

Reviewer 3: see comment above. happy for an alternative phrasing.
A few suggestions for "names" -
specific dataset and a baseline
dataset we want to compare
one dataset and a baseline
current dataset we're using

#. Given his education, a resident of city A now earns more - this is concept drift, and can be detected only once the labels (income) have arrived.

In deepchecks (in checks :doc:`Whole Dataset Drift</checks_gallery/tabular/train_test_validation/plot_whole_dataset_drift>` and
:doc:`Image Dataset Drift</checks_gallery/vision/train_test_validation/plot_image_dataset_drift>`) we check concatenate
the train and the test sets, and assign label 0 to samples that come from the training set, and 1 to those who are
from the test set. Then, we train a binary classifer of type
`Histogram-based Gradient Boosting Classification Tree
<https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.ensemble.HistGradientBoostingClassifier.html>`__, and measure the
drift score from the AUC score of this classifier.

How Can I Use Deepchecks to Detect Drift?
=========================================

Deepchecks can test your data for both concept drift and label drift, by using a variety of methods.

Tabular Data
------------

> To detect `data <#data-drift>`__ or `concept drift <#concept-drift>`__, deepchecks offers the

Author: Why not? They can, we just can't know which one.

> To detect `data <#data-drift>`__ or `concept drift <#concept-drift>`__, deepchecks offers the

Reviewer 3: We don't have any check that checks the difference in p(y|X)
but rather in p(y) or p(X) or p(f(X))
thus it's misleading (yes, theoretically the cause of a drift in p(y) may be due to a concept drift, but we really don't detect it but rather a proxy to it)

> To detect `data <#data-drift>`__ or `concept drift <#concept-drift>`__, deepchecks offers the

Author: I don't think it's misleading. The purpose of these checks is to find, among others, concept drift. We can't promise it as we can't promise anything, but most likely these will be able to find significant concept drift if it exists.
And if we avoid saying that, then why did we explain concept drift to begin with, if we don't say we're trying to find it?

:doc:`Feature Drift check </checks_gallery/tabular/train_test_validation/plot_train_test_feature_drift>` which uses
`univariate measures <#detection-by-univariate-measure>`__ and the :doc:`Whole Dataset Drift check</checks_gallery/tabular/train_test_validation/plot_whole_dataset_drift>`
which uses a `domain classifier <#detection-by-domain-classifier>`__ in order to detect multivariate drift.

> For label drift, deepchecks offers the :doc:`Label Drift check </checks_gallery/tabular/train_test_validation/plot_train_test_label_drift>`, which also uses univariate `statistical test <#detection-by-statistical-test>`__.

Author: thanks! That section name's changed but these were left by mistake

In cases where the label is not available, we strongly recommend to also use the :doc:`Prediction Drift check</checks_gallery/tabular/model_evaluation/plot_train_test_prediction_drift>`,
which uses the same methods but on the model's predictions, and can detect possible changes in the distribution of the label.

For code examples, see `here <#tabular-checks>`__

All of these checks appear in the `deepchecks interactive demo <https://checks-demo.deepchecks.com>`__, where you can
insert corruption into the data and see the check at work.

Computer Vision Data
--------------------

All of the computer vision checks use the :doc:`image and label properties</user-guide/vision-properties>` to estimate
drift, as image data and labels are not simple one-dimensional variables.

> To detect `data <#data-drift>`__ or `concept drift <#concept-drift>`__, deepchecks offers the

Author: Same disagreement but let's discuss in that comment :P

Tabular Checks
--------------

:doc:`TrainTestFeatureDrift </checks_gallery/tabular/train_test_validation/plot_train_test_feature_drift>`:

.. code-block:: python

    from deepchecks.tabular.checks import TrainTestFeatureDrift
    check = TrainTestFeatureDrift()
    result = check.run(train_dataset=train_dataset, test_dataset=test_dataset)

:doc:`WholeDatasetDrift </checks_gallery/tabular/train_test_validation/plot_whole_dataset_drift>`:

.. code-block:: python

    from deepchecks.tabular.checks import WholeDatasetDrift
    check = WholeDatasetDrift()
    result = check.run(train_dataset=train_dataset, test_dataset=test_dataset)

:doc:`TrainTestLabelDrift </checks_gallery/tabular/train_test_validation/plot_train_test_label_drift>`:

.. code-block:: python

    from deepchecks.tabular.checks import TrainTestLabelDrift
    check = TrainTestLabelDrift()
    result = check.run(train_dataset=train_dataset, test_dataset=test_dataset)

:doc:`TrainTestPredictionDrift </checks_gallery/tabular/model_evaluation/plot_train_test_prediction_drift>`:

.. code-block:: python

    from deepchecks.tabular.checks import TrainTestPredictionDrift
    check = TrainTestPredictionDrift()

>     result = check.run(train_dataset=train_dataset, test_dataset=test_dataset)

Reviewer 2: Model needed.

Author: yes you are correct now stop unresolving

Computer Vision Checks
----------------------

:doc:`ImagePropertyDrift </checks_gallery/vision/train_test_validation/plot_image_property_drift>`:

.. code-block:: python

    from deepchecks.vision.checks import ImagePropertyDrift
    check = TrainTestPropertyDrift()
    result = check.run(train_dataset=train_dataset, test_dataset=test_dataset)

:doc:`ImageDatasetDrift </checks_gallery/vision/train_test_validation/plot_image_dataset_drift>`:

.. code-block:: python

    from deepchecks.vision.checks import ImageDatasetDrift
    check = ImageDatasetDrift()
    result = check.run(train_dataset=train_dataset, test_dataset=test_dataset)

:doc:`TrainTestLabelDrift </checks_gallery/vision/train_test_validation/plot_train_test_label_drift>`:

.. code-block:: python

    from deepchecks.vision.checks import TrainTestLabelDrift
    check = TrainTestLabelDrift()
    result = check.run(train_dataset=train_dataset, test_dataset=test_dataset)

:doc:`TrainTestPredictionDrift </checks_gallery/vision/model_evaluation/plot_train_test_prediction_drift>`:

.. code-block:: python

    from deepchecks.vision.checks import TrainTestPredictionDrift
    check = TrainTestPredictionDrift()

>     result = check.run(train_dataset=train_dataset, test_dataset=test_dataset)

Reviewer 2: Model needed.

from the test set. Then, we train a binary classifer of type
`Histogram-based Gradient Boosting Classification Tree
<https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.ensemble.HistGradientBoostingClassifier.html>`__.
We normalize the AUC score of this classifier and use it as the drift score, as the higher the AUC, the better the model,
meaning the datasets are significantly different.

How Can I Use Deepchecks to Detect Drift?
=========================================

Deepchecks can test your data for both concept drift and data drift, by using a variety of methods.

Tabular Data
------------

To detect `data <#data-drift>`__ or `concept drift <#concept-drift>`__, deepchecks offers the
:doc:`Feature Drift check </checks_gallery/tabular/train_test_validation/plot_train_test_feature_drift>` which uses
`univariate measures <#detection-by-univariate-measure>`__ and the :doc:`Whole Dataset Drift check</checks_gallery/tabular/train_test_validation/plot_whole_dataset_drift>`
which uses a `domain classifier <#detection-by-domain-classifier>`__ in order to detect multivariate drift.

> For drift in your label's distribution, deepchecks offers the :doc:`Label Drift check </checks_gallery/tabular/train_test_validation/plot_train_test_label_drift>`,

Reviewer 2: If we way nothing of label drift previously, I'm for saying something about it's usefulness here.

which also uses `univariate measures <#detection-by-univariate-measure>`__.

In cases where the label is not available, we strongly recommend to also use the :doc:`Prediction Drift check</checks_gallery/tabular/model_evaluation/plot_train_test_prediction_drift>`,
which uses the same methods but on the model's predictions, and can detect possible changes in the distribution of the label.

For code examples, see `here <#tabular-checks>`__

All of these checks appear also in the `deepchecks interactive demo <https://checks-demo.deepchecks.com>`__, where you can
insert corruption into the data and see the checks at work.

Computer Vision Data
--------------------

> In computer vision specifically, we can't measure drift on images directly, as the individual pixel has little

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In computer vision we can't measure drift on images directly, as the individual pixel has little
```

which uses a `domain classifier <#detection-by-domain-classifier>`__ in order to detect multivariate drift.

For drift in your label's distribution, deepchecks offers the :doc:`Label Drift check </checks_gallery/vision/train_test_validation/plot_train_test_label_drift>`,
which also uses `univariate measures <#detection-by-univariate-measure>`__.

In cases where the label is not available, we strongly recommend to also use the :doc:`Prediction Drift check</checks_gallery/vision/model_evaluation/plot_train_test_prediction_drift>`,
which uses the same methods but on the model's predictions, and can detect possible changes in the distribution of the label.

For code examples, see `here <#computer-vision-checks>`__

What Can You Do in Case of Drift?
=================================

.. image:: /_static/images/general/deepchecks_label_drift.png
   :alt: Output of the TrainTestLabelDrift check
   :align: center

When suspecting drift in your data, you must first understand what changed in the data - were it the features, the labels,
or maybe just the predictions.

> In deepchecks, we show you a drift score and the drift on your most :doc:`important features </user-guide/tabular/feature_importance>`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In deepchecks, we show a drift score for each feature, starting with your most :doc:`important features </user-guide/tabular/feature_importance>`,
```

> giving you an insight on the severity of your drift, even if your not still sure of its source.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
giving you an idea of the severity of your drift, even if your not still sure of its source.
```

It is recommended to manually explore your data and try to understand the root cause of your changes, in order to
estimate the effect of the change on your model's performance.
After you have deeper insights on your data, you can choose to act in one of the following ways:

Retrain Your Model
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you have either kind of drift, retraining your model on new data that better represents the current distribution,
is the most straight-forward solution.
However, this solution may require additional resources such as manual labeling of new data, or might not be possible
if labels on the newer data are not available yet.

> Retraining is usually necessary in cases of concept drift. However, retraining may still be of use even for label drift

Reviewer 2: A bit weird IMO that label drift is mentioned here for kinda the first time as a phenomenon (and not a check)
